Documentation (#1086)
microsoft/GSL: docs/headers.md

that a pointer must be an owning pointer. This helps static code analysis detect memory leaks, and it helps human readers.

See Enforcement section of [C.31: All resources acquired by a class must be released by the class�s destructor](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#Rc-dtor-release).

### <a name="H-pointers-not_null" />`gsl::not_null`

`gsl::not_null<T>` restricts a pointer or smart pointer to only hold non-null values. It has no size overhead over `T`.

The checks for ensuring that the pointer is not null are done in the constructor. There is no CPU overhead when retrieving or dereferencing the checked pointer.
When a nullptr check fails, `std::terminate` is called.

See [F.23: Use a `not_null<T>` to indicate that �null� is not a valid value](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#Rf-nullptr)

#### Member functions

##### Construct/Copy

```
template <typename U, typename = std::enable_if_t<std::is_convertible<U, T>::value>>
constexpr not_null(U&& u);

template <typename = std::enable_if_t<!std::is_same<std::nullptr_t, T>::value>>
constexpr not_null(T u);
```

> Constructs a `gsl_owner<T>` from a pointer that is convertible to `T` or that is a `T`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constructs a `gsl_owner<T>` from a pointer that is convertible to `T` or that is a `T`. It [`Expects`](#user-content-H-assert-expects) that the provided pointer is not `== nullptr`.
```

```
template <typename U, typename = std::enable_if_t<std::is_convertible<U, T>::value>>
constexpr not_null(const not_null<U>& other);
```

> Constructs a `gsl_owner<T>` from another `gsl_owner` where the other pointer is convertible to `T`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constructs a `gsl_owner<T>` from another `gsl_owner` where the other pointer is convertible to `T`. It [`Expects`](#user-content-H-assert-expects) that the provided pointer is not `== nullptr`.
```

```
not_null(const not_null& other) = default;
not_null& operator=(const not_null& other) = default;
```

Copy construction and assignment.

```
not_null(std::nullptr_t) = delete;
not_null& operator=(std::nullptr_t) = delete;
```

Construction from `std::nullptr_t`  and assignment of `std::nullptr_t` are explicitly deleted.

##### Modifiers

```
not_null& operator++() = delete;
not_null& operator--() = delete;
not_null operator++(int) = delete;
not_null operator--(int) = delete;
not_null& operator+=(std::ptrdiff_t) = delete;
not_null& operator-=(std::ptrdiff_t) = delete;
```

Explicitly deleted operators. Pointers point to single objects, so don't allow these operators.

##### Observers

```
    constexpr details::value_or_reference_return_t<T> get() const;
    constexpr operator T() const { return get(); }
```

Get the underlying pointer.

```
    constexpr decltype(auto) operator->() const { return get(); }
    constexpr decltype(auto) operator*() const { return *get(); }
```

Dereference the underlying pointer.

```
void operator[](std::ptrdiff_t) const = delete;
```

> Array index operator is explicitly deleted. Pointers point to single objects, so don't allow treating them as an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Array index operator is explicitly deleted. Pointers point to single objects ([I.13: Do not pass an array as a single pointer](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#i13-do-not-pass-an-array-as-a-single-pointer)), so don't allow treating them as an array.
```

    -> decltype(lhs.get() == rhs.get());
template <class T, class U>
auto operator!=(const not_null<T>& lhs,
                const not_null<U>& rhs) noexcept(noexcept(lhs.get() != rhs.get()))
    -> decltype(lhs.get() != rhs.get());
template <class T, class U>
auto operator<(const not_null<T>& lhs,
               const not_null<U>& rhs) noexcept(noexcept(lhs.get() < rhs.get()))
    -> decltype(lhs.get() < rhs.get());
template <class T, class U>
auto operator<=(const not_null<T>& lhs,
                const not_null<U>& rhs) noexcept(noexcept(lhs.get() <= rhs.get()))
    -> decltype(lhs.get() <= rhs.get());
template <class T, class U>
auto operator>(const not_null<T>& lhs,
               const not_null<U>& rhs) noexcept(noexcept(lhs.get() > rhs.get()))
    -> decltype(lhs.get() > rhs.get());
template <class T, class U>
auto operator>=(const not_null<T>& lhs,
                const not_null<U>& rhs) noexcept(noexcept(lhs.get() >= rhs.get()))
    -> decltype(lhs.get() >= rhs.get());
```

Comparison of pointers that are convertible to each other.

##### Input/Output

```
template <class T>
std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream& os, const not_null<T>& val);
```

> Performs stream output on a `not_null` pointer. This function is only available when `GSL_NO_IOSTREAMS` is not defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performs stream output on a `not_null` pointer, invoking `os << val.get()`. This function is only available when `GSL_NO_IOSTREAMS` is not defined.
```

##### Modifiers

```
template <class T, class U>
std::ptrdiff_t operator-(const not_null<T>&, const not_null<U>&) = delete;
template <class T>
not_null<T> operator-(const not_null<T>&, std::ptrdiff_t) = delete;
template <class T>
not_null<T> operator+(const not_null<T>&, std::ptrdiff_t) = delete;
template <class T>
not_null<T> operator+(std::ptrdiff_t, const not_null<T>&) = delete;
```

> Addition and subtraction are explicitly deleted. Pointers point to single objects, so don't allow these operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addition and subtraction are explicitly deleted. Pointers point to single objects ([I.13: Do not pass an array as a single pointer](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#i13-do-not-pass-an-array-as-a-single-pointer)), so don't allow these operators.
```

> Addition and subtraction are explicitly deleted. Pointers point to single objects, so don't allow these operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addition and subtraction are explicitly deleted. Pointers point to single objects ([I.13: Do not pass an array as a single pointer](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#i13-do-not-pass-an-array-as-a-single-pointer)), so don't allow these operators.
```

```
template <class T>
struct std::hash<gsl::not_null<T>> { ... };
```

Specialization of `std::hash` for `gsl::not_null`.

### <a name="H-pointers-strict_not_null" />`gsl::strict_not_null`

`strict_not_null` is the same as [`not_null`](#user-content-H-pointers-not_null) except that the constructors are `explicit`.

The free function that deduces the target type from the type of the argument and creates an `gsl::strict_not_null` object is `gsl::make_strict_not_null`.

TODO: Just link to `not_null` or duplicate content?

## <a name="H-span" />`<span>`

&#x1f6a7; 

### <a name="H-span-span" />`gsl::span`

<a name="H-span-at" />`gsl::at`

`gsl::span` (and related functions: `as_bytes`, `as_writable_bytes`)

&#x1f6a7; TODO: document this

&#x1f6a7; TODO: Copy content from https://github.com/microsoft/GSL/wiki/gsl::span-and-std::span

## <a name="H-span_ext" />`<span_ext>`

operators and functions (`as_bytes`, `as_writable_bytes`)

&#x1f6a7; TODO: document this

## <a name="H-string_span" />`<string_span>`

This header exports a family of `*zstring` types.

A `gsl::XXzstring<T>` is a typedef to `T`. It adds no checks or whatsoever, it is just for having a syntax to describe

> that a pointer is a pointer to a zero terminated C style string. This helps static code analysis, and it helps human readers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that a pointer points to a zero terminated C style string. This helps static code analysis, and it helps human readers.
```

`u16zstring` is a zero terminated `char16_t` string.  
`cu16zstring` is a const zero terminated `char16_t` string.  
`u32zstring` is a zero terminated `char32_t` string.  
`cu32zstring` is a const zero terminated `char32_t` string.  

See [GSL.view](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#SS-views) and [SL.str.3: Use zstring or czstring to refer to a C-style, zero-terminated, sequence of characters](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#Rstr-zstring).

&#x1f6a7; TODO: Also document basic_zstring? It is mentioned in README.md, but not mentioned in the Core Guidelines.

## <a name="H-util" />`<util>`

This header contains utility functions and classes. This header works without exceptions being available. The parts that require
exceptions being available are in their own header file [narrow](#user-content-H-narrow).

See [GSL.util: Utilities](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#SS-utilities)

- [`gsl::narrow_cast`](#user-content-H-util-narrow_cast)
- [`gsl::final_action`](#user-content-H-util-final_action)
- [`gsl::at`](#user-content-H-util-at)

### <a name="H-util-index" />`gsl::index`

> Index type for all container indexes/subscripts/sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alias to `std::ptrdiff_t`. It serves as the index type for all container indexes/subscripts/sizes.
```

### <a name="H-util-narrow_cast" />`gsl::narrow_cast`

> `gsl::narrow_cast<T>(x)` is a named cast that is identical to a `static_cast<T>(x)`. It exists to make the intent clearer to static code analysis tools and to human readers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`gsl::narrow_cast<T>(x)` is a named cast that is identical to a `static_cast<T>(x)`. It exists to make clear to static code analysis tools and to human readers that a lossy conversion is acceptable.
```

#### Member functions

```
explicit final_action(const F& ff) noexcept;
explicit final_action(F&& ff) noexcept;
```

Construct an object with the action to invoke in the destructor.

```
~final_action() noexcept;
```

The destructor will call the action that was passed in the constructor.

```
final_action(final_action&& other) noexcept;
final_action(const final_action&)   = delete;
void operator=(const final_action&) = delete;
void operator=(final_action&&)      = delete;
```

Move construction is allowed. Copy construction is deleted. Copy and move assignment are also explicitely deleted.

#### Non-member functions

```
template <class F>
auto finally(F&& f) noexcept;
```

Creates a `gsl::final_action` object, deducing the template argument type from the type of the argument.

### <a name="H-util-at" />`gsl::at`

The function `gsl::at` offers a safe way to access data with index bounds checking.

Note: `gsl::at` supports indexes up to `PTRDIFF_MAX`.

See [ES.42: Keep use of pointers simple and straightforward](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#Res-ptr)

```
template <class T, std::size_t N>
constexpr T& at(T (&arr)[N], const index i);
```

> This overload returns a reference to the `i`s element of a C style array `arr`. In case of an out-of-bound access `std::terminate` is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This overload returns a reference to the `i`s element of a C style array `arr`. It [`Expects`](#user-content-H-assert-expects) that the provided index is within the bounds of the array.
```

```
template <class Cont>
constexpr auto at(Cont& cont, const index i) -> decltype(cont[cont.size()]);
```

> This overload returns a reference to the `i`s element of the container `cont`. In case of an out-of-bound access `std::terminate` is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This overload returns a reference to the `i`s element of the container `cont`. It [`Expects`](#user-content-H-assert-expects) that the provided index is within the bounds of the array.
```

```
template <class T>
constexpr T at(const std::initializer_list<T> cont, const index i);
```

> This overload returns a reference to the `i`s element of the initializer list `cont`. In case of an out-of-bound access `std::terminate` is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This overload returns a reference to the `i`s element of the initializer list `cont`. It [`Expects`](#user-content-H-assert-expects) that the provided index is within the bounds of the array.
```

```
template <class T, std::size_t extent = std::dynamic_extent>
constexpr auto at(std::span<T, extent> sp, const index i) -> decltype(sp[sp.size()]);
```

> This overload returns a reference to the `i`s element of the `std::span` `sp`. In case of an out-of-bound access `std::terminate` is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This overload returns a reference to the `i`s element of the `std::span` `sp`. It [`Expects`](#user-content-H-assert-expects) that the provided index is within the bounds of the array.
```

```

Constructs a `span` from a C style array. This overload is available if `Extent ==`[`gsl::dynamic_extent`](#user-content-H-span_ext-dynamic_extent)
or `N == Extent`.

```cpp
template <class T, std::size_t N>
constexpr span(std::array<T, N>& arr) noexcept;

template <class T, std::size_t N>
constexpr span(const std::array<T, N>& arr) noexcept;
```

Constructs a `span` from a `std::array`. These overloads are available if `Extent ==`[`gsl::dynamic_extent`](#user-content-H-span_ext-dynamic_extent)
or `N == Extent`, and if the array can be interpreted as a `ElementType` array.

```cpp
template <class Container>
constexpr explicit(Extent != gsl::dynamic_extent) span(Container& cont) noexcept;

template <class Container>
constexpr explicit(Extent != gsl::dynamic_extent) span(const Container& cont) noexcept;
```

Constructs a `span` from a container. These overloads are available if `Extent ==`[`gsl::dynamic_extent`](#user-content-H-span_ext-dynamic_extent)
or `N == Extent`, and if the container can be interpreted as a contiguous `ElementType` array.

```cpp
constexpr span(const span& other) noexcept = default;
```

Copy constructor.

```cpp

> template <class OtherElementType, std::size_t OtherExtent>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
template <class OtherElementType, std::size_t OtherExtent>
explicit(Extent == gsl::dynamic_extent || Extent == OtherExtent)
constexpr span(const span<OtherElementType, OtherExtent>& other) noexcept;

template <class OtherElementType, std::size_t OtherExtent>
```

> explicit(Extent != gsl::dynamic_extent)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
explicit(Extent != gsl::dynamic_extent && OtherExtent == Extent)
```

> constexpr span(const span<OtherElementType, OtherExtent>& other) noexcept;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
constexpr explicit span(const span<OtherElementType, OtherExtent>& other) noexcept;
```

```

> Constructs a `span` from another `span`. The copy constructor is available if `Extent ==`[`gsl::dynamic_extent`](#user-content-H-span_ext-dynamic_extent)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constructs a `span` from another `span`, allowing construction from a `span` of different extent and element type.
```

> or `OtherExtent == Extent` and if the `ElementType` and `OtherElementType` are compatible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

or `N == Extent`.

```cpp
template <class T, std::size_t N>
constexpr span(std::array<T, N>& arr) noexcept;

template <class T, std::size_t N>
constexpr span(const std::array<T, N>& arr) noexcept;
```

Constructs a `span` from a `std::array`. These overloads are available if `Extent ==`[`gsl::dynamic_extent`](#user-content-H-span_ext-dynamic_extent)
or `N == Extent`, and if the array can be interpreted as a `ElementType` array.

```cpp
template <class Container>
constexpr explicit(Extent != gsl::dynamic_extent) span(Container& cont) noexcept;

template <class Container>
constexpr explicit(Extent != gsl::dynamic_extent) span(const Container& cont) noexcept;
```

Constructs a `span` from a container. These overloads are available if `Extent ==`[`gsl::dynamic_extent`](#user-content-H-span_ext-dynamic_extent)
or `N == Extent`, and if the container can be interpreted as a contiguous `ElementType` array.

```cpp
constexpr span(const span& other) noexcept = default;
```

Copy constructor.

```cpp
template <class OtherElementType, std::size_t OtherExtent>
explicit(Extent != gsl::dynamic_extent)
constexpr span(const span<OtherElementType, OtherExtent>& other) noexcept;
```

> Constructs a `span` from another span. This overload is available if `Extent ==`[`gsl::dynamic_extent`](#user-content-H-span_ext-dynamic_extent)

Reviewer: to clarify, the sentence here reads `This overload is available if `Extent ==`[`[gsl::dynamic_extent](https://github.com/microsoft/GSL/pull/1086#user-content-H-span_ext-dynamic_extent)`](#user-content-H-span_ext-dynamic_extent)`, whereas the code snippet it's referring to has `explicit(Extent != gsl::dynamic_extent)` - so one of these needs to be fixed

rend(const span<ElementType, Extent>& s) noexcept;

template <class ElementType, std::size_t Extent>
constexpr typename span<ElementType, Extent>::iterator
cbegin(const span<ElementType, Extent>& s) noexcept;

template <class ElementType, std::size_t Extent = dynamic_extent>
constexpr typename span<ElementType, Extent>::iterator
cend(const span<ElementType, Extent>& s) noexcept;

template <class ElementType, std::size_t Extent>
constexpr typename span<ElementType, Extent>::reverse_iterator
crbegin(const span<ElementType, Extent>& s) noexcept;

template <class ElementType, std::size_t Extent>
constexpr typename span<ElementType, Extent>::reverse_iterator
crend(const span<ElementType, Extent>& s) noexcept;
```

Free functions for getting a non-const/const begin/end normal/reverse iterator for a [`span`](#user-content-H-span-span).

## <a name="H-string_span" />`<string_span>`

This header exports a family of `*zstring` types.

A `gsl::XXzstring<T>` is a typedef to `T`. It adds no checks or whatsoever, it is just for having a syntax to describe
that a pointer points to a zero terminated C style string. This helps static code analysis, and it helps human readers.

> `zstring` is a zero terminated `char` string.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`basic_zstring` is a pointer to a C-string (zero-terminated array) with a templated char type. Used to implement the rest of the `*zstring` family.
```

`czstring` is a const zero terminated `char` string.  
`wzstring` is a zero terminated `wchar_t` string.  
`cwzstring` is a const zero terminated `wchar_t` string.  
`u16zstring` is a zero terminated `char16_t` string.  
`cu16zstring` is a const zero terminated `char16_t` string.  
`u32zstring` is a zero terminated `char32_t` string.  
`cu32zstring` is a const zero terminated `char32_t` string.  

See [GSL.view](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#SS-views) and [SL.str.3: Use zstring or czstring to refer to a C-style, zero-terminated, sequence of characters](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#Rstr-zstring).

> &#x1f6a7; TODO: Also document basic_zstring? It is mentioned in README.md, but not mentioned in the Core Guidelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Sure, it won't hurt -- added suggestion above
